---
layout: post
title:      "MotivatingMyselfOut"
date:       2019-08-28 04:58:56 +0000
permalink:  motivatingmyselfout
---

So I have always loved math, but coding wasn't really my thing 23 years ago, or so I thought...
I took courses in computer science in high school, but I didn't LOVE coding the way my twin brother did 
(insert an eye-roll here). 
My brother saw the beauty in coding in the '90s, before "Windows" became a thing. He didn't mind the look of the green font on the seeminingly basic black screen, but, ugh, I did! The screen didn't have enough colors or any sort graphical interfaces to excite me, and color is very important to me.
I am not sure exactly sure why my attitude was the way it was toward learning to code in BASIC in my computer science in high school, so I theororize now, it was probably really a combination of a variety of things including:  feeling intimidated by coding on a black screen, being taught by an inexperienced and unmotivating teacher who geared class toward male students, while I was also just way too immature to value learning something new with no real understanding of the technology boom on the horizon. 

However, in college, my desire to get a major in math came with the added requirement of taking coding courses!!! Therefore, I took "Fundamentals of Programming."  By this time, "Windows" had made its debut and the internet was making its way, exciting the world. The course focused on C++  and this is when my attitude shifted. This time, I found the course somewhat fun. I was working within a nice colorful development platform, and I loved that it enhanced my skills thinking logically, but I still wasn't thoroughly convinced coding was my thing. That little negative taste in my mouth from high school lingered.

Fast forward a few years later... After college, I became a high school mathematics teacher as well as a business owner of an upscale children's boutique and embroidery shop. Needless to say, creating vector images, digitizining designs for stitching, and designing a website for my online store were all necessities for success with my personal business.  At the same time, working with Learning Managment Systems, technology applications, and graphing calculators enhanced my math classroom. So my need for technology and the value it had in my day to day became real. I felt the need to learn it, at least to an extent. I was scripting in Html without really knowing what I was doing just to customize my website and classroom platforms. I think it was at this point I started to see its beauty,  a little more like my twin brother did so many years ago in high school. 
I started watching more video and tinkering with code in my free time, but nothing too dramatic of course. I was also very busy having kids, running a business, teaching and working on a masters degree. 
SO ...after teaching secondary mathematics courses for a little over ten years, I hungered for a change from teaching the same content year after year to something with more applied mathematics. So I set my mind toward moving into the STEM classroom, where math could come to life. I trained, certified, and transitioned into teaching high school engineering courses, and oh how I loved it! I felt like I was learning and playing every day at work as the students and I explored STEM, learning together. Project Based learning became the norm of my days. 
Now, as an experienced teacher, I was not only teaching engineering, I was coordinating, curriculum writing, and running the entire program at the high school. I was having fun, and so were the kids. It didn't take me long to almost quadruple the program numbers for STEM enrollment. The program did some pretty cool stuff that other kids wanted to be part of.  My classes launched weather balloons to the edge of space, programming and tracking data from a basic flight computer that sent information back from the balloon in real time through radio signals.  My classes entered and competed in UIL state level robotics competitions. My students competed nationally in rocketry, advancing to finals in Virginia. My classes programmed simple mini-drones to fly courses autonomously around the school. Now I must say, within these projects the coding wasn't too intense, and the internet was always our best friend when we didn't know what to do. So year after year, some projects stayed, new projects were formed, and I was learning along side the kids getting excited about STEM.  It was through these engineering projects, and the shared passion with my students, I quickly saw the need for our high school to ramp up the computer science program. It needed to run concurrently with the engineering program. Of course, this isn't as easy as it sounds. In order to do this, you have to first have a computer science teacher,  but finding a certified computer science teacher is very difficult in Texas.  The state of Texas (TEA),  offeres money to teachers who can pass the COSC  licensing exam, because it is difficult. We needed a program, and so the burden fell on me. I decided  to take actions. I dove back in to more coding. I reviewed and taught myself enough computer science and coding to pass that state teacher licensing exam. I had a strong enough math background, so my focus was coding, coding,and more coding.  It was hard, and there were gaps in my learning, but I did it.  I licensed to teach computer science in Texas. Then, I convinced the school to offer and teach computer science courses with an emphasis in Java coding. This language was mostly taught because that is the language of choice for UIL Academics Coding Competitions at the high schools in Texas. 
So fast forward to the last 4 years of my teaching career. These years were the happiest years of my teaching career and these were the years that motivated me out of my classroom to land here at FlatIron School. Every year I was instilling passion for many students to follow their dreams and their love of computer science. I prepared them for either a post-secondary technical program or to attend college in a related field. As my students started graduating, I started feeling left behind. I felt like my learning was on hold as I sent them away somehow. I couldn't stand still standing still with my leqarning as new students came through. 
Right after my fortieth birthday, my mind started wondering. You can call it a mid-life crisis if you want, but I started thinking I am not sure if I want to stay in teaching or education forever!!! I started dreaming of making a career change.
I spent 17 years loving and motivating kids, but now all I could think about was how I wanted to leave my classroom and the program I built , because I hunger(ed) and longed for learning more. I want to go code for real. I want to dive into industry and push myself in this field. 
So here I am. I said good-bye to an amazing group of students, and quit my teaching job.  I want to persue my next steps coding in an area of software engineering, and I am thankful for my brother, for referring me to FlatIron.  
So here I am today, my three children are in school as of this week. I am no longer teaching, and now I am excited to start going full time learning with FlatIron, ready to take a leap in to a new career. 


